>> Scott Moss: There are some more
advanced use cases for sure, but
they start to lean into
CMS specific stuff.
And I just didn't wanna get into
that because there isn't a standard.
At one point,
we were trying to make a standard of,
here's what all the data should
look like from every headless CMS.
And we went around to every headless
CMS covers let's make it standard.
Nobody wanted to do it.
They just wanted to do it their own way.
And I was, no, we should make a standard.
So if someone wants to turn off
your site and go to another site,
they could bring their data with them.
And that was the thing
they didn't wanna do.
They wanted to get keep.
So I thought that was great.
We all could have benefited from it.
So there isn't a standard on
what this should look like.
Everyone has their own opinions.
So, I try to be non-biased whenever.
When I have to use products with
the courses that I teach, but for
the most part, the advanced use
cases are very platform specific.
But what I showed you today is 80% of
what a headless CMS is and how it works.
And there really isn't
much more to it than that.
So I covered those things.
If there's any questions about
headless CMS, next JS or
really anything related to
adjacent to any of that.
I'm here for it.
>> Speaker 2: Scott.
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Pretty broad question.
>> Scott Moss: It's toxin really
interesting because it seems CMS is
largely also a structural or
team dependent kind of problem.
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
In your experience,
what are some good rules of thumb
they kinda follow when kind of
configuring what the content team
has access to versus the developers.
And I know this is probably really
dependent on how technical the content
team is and stuff like that.
But are there kind of things
that in your experience
are good practices to
follow more generally?
>> Scott Moss: Yes,
if your CMS has roles, enable the roles.
Do not let the content
people mess with the models.
Your app's gonna break.
If you let the mess with the models
is broken coz you are banking on
the fact that the concept's
gonna come back in this shape.
Your code is not, we didn't put no checks
to make sure that field was available or
not, because obviously GraphQL would
have thrown an error if it wasn't.
But so don't let constant
people touch the models at all,
which is why a lot of the open source
CMSs, you write the model in the code now.
It's a JSON file, so they can't touch it.
When we built our CMS, that's what we did.
I think if you're one of the first ones
that did that, we're, no, take it out,
write the model as just pure JSON,
and then we'd interpret that.
We basically took a model a JSON file and
turned that into an app.
So you give us a JSON schema,
we turn that into a full blown app for
your content team, right?
So don't do that.
The second thing is,
>> Scott Moss: From my
experience being an engineer
developing a content model for
a content team is being a founder
trying to find product market fit.
If you are sick and
tired of managing concepts engineering,
you really wanna empower
your content team.
You're gonna have to act like a founder
and sit down with your content team and
go and watch them use it.
And see what they struggle on and see how
you can improve the schema, how you can
improve the model, maybe change this field
UI, maybe change the name of this label.
You really got to figure out why
is this really hard for them.
Why don't they use it, why are they
still slacking me to do this thing when
I already showed them how to do the thing
and it's you just got to sit down and
watch them, just like a founder would.
Eventually you'll figure out what's the
root issue, and you will eventually hit
this road where you have to sacrifice what
is best for your app, for what's best for
the content team, and
just go make it work for the content team.
You can write code for it.
Just write the code you got to fix it.
Just make them happy coz at the end of the
day, it's gonna make you happy because for
the most part,
they'll just keep contacting you.
They'll just keep hitting you,
hey, can you do the thing?
And you're, my God, okay?
And it's nobody's fault, but yours,
because you didn't sit down to kinda
figure out what it is that they need.
And that's just kinda
the unfortunate thing, honestly.
It's really tough because it's just
a headless CMS has to be integrated by
a developer, but it's mostly used by
someone who didn't do the integration.
So those two people have to
communicate at some point,
there has to be some communication there,
unless you have a growth engineer who sits
on the marketing team and
also sits on the engineering team.
And they're the liaison between two groups
and they can kind of just do everything.
You need some type of communication,
some planning and coordination there.
So I would say that.
And then lastly, start slow.
Don't go in and just I know exactly how
to make all the schemas for everything.
And I'm just gonna go in and
do everything no do what we just did.
Pick one title, pick one thing.
Make that dynamic.
Give it to someone like cool,
you can change that thing now,
just that one thing you can change it,
let them warm up to that.
And then go out another thing and then add
another thing and add another thing is
slowly you start to do that way they're
learning they're getting used to it.
At the same time, you don't have to
just do all the stuff up front, right?
And you can kinda go as you please.
So I would just adopt it that way.
It's a lot slower, but I think it leads
to higher, it just makes it more sticky.
I think people stick with the product
a lot more when they adopt it that way,
whereas if you get these weird signals
where someone will dial the CMS engineer
super excited about it.
And it looks like a good signal and
they just built integration super quick.
But then it hurts the content
team coz they did so much.
The company was overwhelmed with
everything that the engineers did.
Whereas the inverse is true,
it's the engineers
taking their time they only added one
field, they only do this one thing.
But that one feels getting changed 10
times a week, coz it kinda seems it's so
easy for them.
So [LAUGH] it's so weird these
are the things that I observed.
So those are some of the tips.
>> Speaker 2: Gotcha.
Thank you,
Gamify the content editors journey.
They get it achievements along the way.
>> Scott Moss: [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 2: That's [LAUGH].
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, [LAUGH] Pretty much.
Well, I think that's it.
Wanna appreciate everybody for coming.
This course was super fun.
It was kinda nostalgic just walking down
this path again, seeing how [LAUGH] deep
and dedicated I was for, have the CMS for
about four years of my life.
So, it felt kind of fun.
So thanks for entertaining me, and
I hope you guys got some value from this.
>> [APPLAUSE]